# Cryptography



## Symmetric Cryptography


## Asymmetric Cryptography


## [ECDSA](https://www.instructables.com/Understanding-how-ECDSA-protects-your-data/)

ECDSA stands for Elliptcal Curve Cryptography and is used to generate signature of data (a file for example) in order to allow you to verify its authenticity without compromising its security. Examples, signing software installations on mobile or computer, requires valid signature and suuccessfull verification.

The priciple behind the signature is two words in its name, that is, mathematical curve and algorithm. The signature considers a curve on a grph and a point of origin. It is based on an equation of the curve of the form: *y^2 = (x^3 + a * x + b) mod p*

**Explaination: The equation means that for any x coordinate, we get two y values, and the curve is symmetric on the X axis. The modulo is a prime number(p) and makes sure that all the values are within our range, hence the possible values of *y^2* in range {0, p-1}.**


The parameters ‘a‘ and ‘b‘ are the parameters in the curve function, that ‘p‘ is the prime modulus, and that ‘N‘ is the number of points of the curve (valid points), but there is also ‘G‘ that is needed for ECDSA, and it represents a ‘reference point’ or a point of origin if you prefer. 

**Explaination: Since each x will yield two points (positive and negative values of the square-root of y^2), this means that there are N/2 possible ‘x‘ coordinates that are valid and that give a point on the curve. **


### ECDSA Signature Algorithms
The algorithms for the signature are as follows:

1. Key Generation *(dA, Qa)*: Generates private and public key pair to sign and verify the signature.
  i. Generate a random number as private key, say, *dA*
  ii. Calculate public key, (say *Qa*) from point multiplication of G with the private key, *Qa = dA * G*

2. Signature Generation: Generates signature on the hash of file/message using private key, which consists of two parts *(R,S)*
    i. Randomly generate value ‘k‘ 
    ii.  Perform point multiplication to calculate the point *P=k*G*.  This has (x,y), we only use x corordinate to calculate signature. We call x-coordinate as *R* as first part of the signature.
    iii. Now we calculate other part of signature *S* using hash of file, *R* that we just calculated and private key *dA*. This results in  *S = k^-1 (z + dA * R) mod p*, where z represents hash value of the file/data and p is the curve parameter modulus prime number.
    
**Explaination: k^-1 which is the ‘modular multiplicative inverse‘ of k, such that (k^-1 * k ) mod p is equal to 1. **

3. Signature Verification: In order to verify the signaure is correct, we need public key (*Qa*) and one part of the received signature (*S*), to calculate the other part of the signature which is, *R*, z is hash of the file/message.
      We have equation for  P = S^-1 * z * G + S^-1 * R * Qa

We try to calculate the x coordinate of the point *P*, and watch if is equal to *R*, which would mean the the signature is valid, otherwise it’s not.


### Security of ECDSA: The Trap Door Function
The point multiplication where a point R = k * P, even after knowing R and P, there is no way to find out what the value of ‘k‘ is, as we will just end up on another point on the curve. We can’t reverse this operation, and can’t find the value ‘k‘ which was multiplied with your point P to give you the resulting point R.
This thing where you can’t find the multiplicand even when you know the original and destination points is the whole basis of the security behind the ECDSA algorithm, and the principle is called a “trap door function“.

